modules/geosqlbackend/README.md, before:

GeoSQL Backend for PowerDNS is copyright Ⓒ 2013-2015 Shin Sterneck

This README is writting in MarkDown format and is currently under 
work-in-progress. Last Update: Mar. 2015


Table of Contents
-----------------

1. [Introduction](#introduction])
    * [How does it work](#how-does-it-work)
    * [Overlay Concept](#overlay-concept)
    * [Special RR Records](#special-rr-records)
2. [Basic Setup](#setup)
    * [Requirements](#requirements)
    * [Preparing the GeoIP Database](#preparing-the-geoip-database)
    * [DNS Database](#dns-database)
4. [Database Schema Requirements](#database-schema-requirements)
5. [Other Notes](#other-notes)


Introduction
============

The GeoSQL backend for PowerDNS enables you to distribute your services
globally and direct your users the nearest server. This is achieved by 
adding location awareness to PowerDNS and maintaining regional DNS 'views'.

One goal for the GeoSQL backend module is to keep the administration and maintenance as 
simple as possible by centralizing the data into an SQL database and thus allowing the domain/zone 
maintainers to use existing powerdns administration tools, such as [PowerAdmin](http://www.poweradmin.org) to 
manage GeoSQL enabled domains without the need to maintain local mapping files on the
powerdns server. The GeoSQL module uses "IP Address to Location" mapping data stored inside an SQL Database.

GeoIP enabled DNS records are stored in the same database table and format as PowerDNS's gmysql backend,
and basically appear exactly like any other domain except that they have a custom TLD identifier. If required, they can
of course be also stored in a different database using the same gmysql schema structure, but this will require further configuration.

Support for "EDNS0 Client-Subnet" extension helps to best identify the client region even when behind a
CDN or other recursive DNS servers (if supported by the provider), such as Google's Public DNS service.

Here a summary of the main features:

1. IP address to country mapping data is completly housed inside an SQL database (allows replication, central administration, and customization of the GeoIP Data)
2. Use existing admin tools to manage geoip enabled domains/zones (allows for admin delegation)
3. Support for edns0-client-subnet extension to best identify client region

###How does it work?

1. **The administrator, has the option of grouping countries together into "regions" or to use the "country ID" directly**

    **a)** For example, if you want to create a zone specific for asian countries you 
    could group all asian countries together and assign them to the region "asia".
    
    **b)** Alternatively the country code itself can be used directly without adding it to groups
    E.g: HK for Hong Kong or US for the United States of America.

2. **All GeoIP enabled zones have a suffix, which is by default "geosql"**

    By default all records/zones/domains that end with the custom TLD ".geosql" are handled by
    the GeoSQL backend module. This effectively creates "views" for each region.

As such, GeoIP enabled domains or views have the following format:


|           Format                  | OR |           Format                    |
|:---------------------------------:|:--:|:-----------------------------------:|
| [domain-name].[REGION].[SUFFIX]   |    | [domain-name].[COUNTRY-ID].[SUFFIX] |


**When PowerDNS receives a query from a client:**

**1.** It forwards the request to the GeoSQL module.

**2.** GeoSQL tries to identify the visitors geographic location and appends 
       the identified REGION and SUFFIX text to the request. This results in a new 
       "temporary" request: [requested-domain-name].[REGION].[SUFFIX]

**3.** When GeoSQL receives a response from the database, it removes the 
       [REGION] and [SUFFIX] from the result.

**4.** Finally it returns the "stripped" (without the [REGION].[SUFFIX] string appended) DNS response back to PowerDNS for further 
       processing.

All you need in the PowerDNS database is a domain entry for each REGION or COUNTRY-ID,
with its own records just like with any other domain.

---

As an example, lets say your domain name is called 'example.com' and you
want to create views for the countries 'us' (U.S.A) and 'it' (Italy). The quickest way would be
to create the zones like this:

| Actual Domain Name | [COUNTRY-ID]    | [SUFFIX] |
|:-------------------|:----------------|:---------|
|example.com         | us              | geosql   |
|example.com         | it              | geosql   |

Your domain within PowerDNS would then look like this:

| Zone Name in PowerDNS's SQL DB   | Description                    |
|:---------------------------------|:-------------------------------|
| example.com                      | main or default domain         |
| example.com.us.geosql            | view for the U.S.A             |
| example.com.it.geosql            | view for Italy                 |


As another example,  you can create so called "regions". Regions group countries together.
Such as 'europe' containing the individual countries in Europe.
**For this to work, you need to associate the countries to a region inside the SQL database first,
see below optional setup step on how to accomplish this**

Following would be a 'regional' example:

| Actual Domain Name | [REGION]        | [SUFFIX] |
|:-------------------|:----------------|:---------|
|example.com         | europe          | geosql   |
|example.com         | asia            | geosql   |
|example.com         | northamerica    | geosql   |

Your domain within PowerDNS would then look like this:

| Zone Name in PowerDNS's SQL DB   | Description                    |
|:---------------------------------|:-------------------------------|
| example.com                      | main or default domain         |
| example.com.europe.geosql        | view for european region       |
| example.com.asia.geosql          | view for asian region          |
| example.com.northamerica.geosql  | view for north american region |

The first 'example.com' domain would act as the default domain and is actually not
part of the GeoSQL backend. The remaining domains, containing the REGION's text, are
geographic specific views, containig DNS records specific to the geographic 
location such as A, CNAME, TXT, MX records or even NS records.

---

Once you have these views, you can simply maintain DNS records within them, just
like with any other domains within PowerDNS. The only important issue to
take care of is that you don't use  a real world TLD (Top Level Domain) as the SUFFIX such as 
'com', 'org' or 'net' to prevent conflicts with real domains. The default SUFFIX is 'geosql';

Some administration tools, such as PowerAdmin, require you to enable non-standard TLDs, otherwise
they won't allow you to create them in the first place. See the individual admin tools' documentation.


###Overlay Concept

GeoSQL is designed to be used as an overlay module, this means that GeoSQL needs to be used 
together with the gmysql backend or another backend that stores its data within an SQL Database.

This also means that you only need to create DNS records, which need to be different in each
geographic location. All other records are handled by other PowerDNS backends, such as the 
gmysql backend.

If you have DNS records that are different in each geographic location and 
other records that are same across all geographic regions, there is no need to
create the common ones again in all GeoSQL views. Simple create them once in 
the main domain (the real domain) and the differing entries in the .geosql suffixed view.
This makes maintenance extremly easy and allows for any DNS resource record to
be used with GeoSQL. It also eliminates the use of CNAME redirects or other
types of tricks.


---

**Example:**

Lets say you have the following A records in the 'example.com' zone/domain:

Domain **"example.com"** for **all** visitors worldwide

| Host Entry       | A record       |
|:-----------------|:-------------- |
| www.example.com  | 203.0.113.100  |
| test.example.com | 203.0.113.200  |

Domain **"example.com.asia.geosql"** specific for **asian** visitors (asian view):

| Host Entry       | A record       |
|:-----------------|:-------------- |
| www.example.com  | 192.0.2.100    |

Domain **"example.com.europe.geosql"** specific for **european** visitors (european view):

| Host Entry       | A record       |
|:-----------------|:-------------- |
| www.example.com  | 198.51.100.100 |

**The final combined result would look as follows:**


**Asian** visitors would see the following records:

| Host Entry       | Response       | Handled by     |
|:-----------------|:---------------|:---------------|
| www.example.com  | 192.0.2.100    | GeoSQL backend |
| test.example.com | 203.0.113.200  | Other backend  |

**European** visitors would see the following records:

| Request          | Response       | Handled by     |
|:-----------------|:---------------|:---------------|
| www.example.com  | 198.51.100.100 | GeoSQL backend |
| test.example.com | 203.0.113.200  | Other backend  |


In the above example you can see that the 'test.example.com' entry is shown even though the asian or
european views do not include this entry. What actually happens is that after
PowerDNS has processed the GeoSQL response, it continues on with the next
backend, until all relevant backends have been queried (this logic
is handled by PowerDNS) and the "test.example.com" comes from one of the other "Other" backends.
Once all data is available, PowerDNS responds to the client with the combined results of all backends.

---

> 1. Note that in the event the visitor can't be mapped to a REGION, such as in the case 
> when no region has been configured, GeoSQL will assign the actual country code and try to retrieve
> any country-code specific DNS records from the database.
> 
> 2. If you have country-code specific records for the domain in the records database, it will always use those
> regardless of whether the country-code is part of a region or if region specific records exist in the
> database. Country-Code is more specific and therefore set as a higher priority than any configured region records.
>
> 3. If GeoSQL can not find a region nor a country code, it will simply report that it could
> not find any records, back to PowerDNS, which in turn may process the request with other backends.

Note that GeoSQL does not directly support slave or zone-transfer operations but you can get the geosql zones
via the gmysql backend by using the the full domain name like in the database "example.com.us.geosql".


Special RR records
------------------

The main DNS domain will be used for SOA record queries! The GeoSQL module will
ignore the SOA record inside a .geosql domain and instead use the 'real' SOA record instead.

###Setup

The following instructions can be used as a basic setup to get GeoSQL running: 

GeoSQL depends on two data sources:

1. The GeoIP Database containing IP Address Ranges and their assigned Location
2. The PowerDNS DNS Records Database, containing your DNS records.


## Requirements

GeoSQL currently requires the following libraries:

+ OpenDBX Library (build with MySQL support)
+ Boost ( including Regex Library)


##Preparing the GeoIP Database


1. To prepare the database, we will first need to download the GeoIP Data.
There are several free and commercial ready to download collections available,
however for this tutorial we will be using the MaxMind GeoLite Legacy Database in CSV
format, which is freely available on their 
[homepage](http://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/legacy/geolite) and is regularly 
updated. 
> It's also possible to use the new GeoLite2 database but for the sake of simplicity
> we will use the legacy database as the import method can also be applied to other database
> sources such as ip2location's lite database.

2. Once you have downloaded the GeoIP data, we'll have to import 
it into our MySQL server. 

The below sql statements will take care of this procedure, it presumes that the MaxMind CSV file
"GeoIPCountryWhois.csv" is located at '/tmp/GeoIPCountryWhois.csv'.
Change it to wherever you have downloaded the file to.


```
/* Create database to store IP to Geo Mapping information */

/*!40000 DROP DATABASE IF EXISTS `geoip`*/;
CREATE DATABASE /*!32312 IF NOT EXISTS*/ `geoip` /*!40100 DEFAULT CHARACTER SET utf8 COLLATE utf8_unicode_ci */;
USE geoip;

DROP TABLE IF EXISTS ip;
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS cc;
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS regions;
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS csv;

/* Table to hold the region details */
CREATE TABLE regions (
    regionid INT UNSIGNED NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY AUTO_INCREMENT,
    regionname VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL UNIQUE,
    comment VARCHAR(50)
);

/* Table to hold the Country Codes and reference to the region */
CREATE TABLE cc (
    ci INT UNSIGNED NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY AUTO_INCREMENT,
    cc CHAR(2) NOT NULL,
    cn VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
    regionid INT UNSIGNED,
    FOREIGN KEY (regionid) REFERENCES regions(regionid)
);

/* Table to hold the IP Address - Geo Mapping Information */
CREATE TABLE ip (
    ip_poly POLYGON NOT NULL,
    ci INT UNSIGNED NOT NULL,
    SPATIAL INDEX (ip_poly)
) engine=myisam;

/* Create a view for easy lookup */
create view lookup as
    select ip_poly,cc,regionname from ip 
    left join cc on ip.ci = cc.ci 
    left join regions on cc.regionid=regions.regionid;

/* Temporary table used for importing the CSV file */
CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE csv (
    id INT UNSIGNED NOT NULL auto_increment,
    ip_poly POLYGON NOT NULL,
    cc CHAR(2) NOT NULL,
    cn VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
    PRIMARY KEY (id)
);

/* Importing of CSV file and converting IP Address into a GeoSpacial format for a more efficient search */
LOAD DATA LOCAL INFILE "/tmp/GeoIPCountryWhois.csv"
    INTO TABLE csv FIELDS TERMINATED BY "," ENCLOSED BY "\"" LINES TERMINATED BY "\n"
     (@ip_start_string, @ip_end_string, @ip_start, @ip_end, @cc, @country_string)
    SET
     id := NULL,
     ip_poly := GEOMFROMWKB(POLYGON(LINESTRING(
      POINT(@ip_start, -1), POINT(@ip_end, -1), POINT(@ip_end, 1), POINT(@ip_start, 1), POINT(@ip_start, -1)))),
     cc := @cc,
     cn := @country_string;

/* Filling tables with imported data, while performing some optimizations */
INSERT INTO cc SELECT DISTINCT NULL,cc,cn,NULL FROM csv ORDER BY cc ASC;
INSERT INTO ip SELECT ip_poly,ci FROM csv NATURAL JOIN cc;

CREATE INDEX records_name ON records (name);

```

## Optional: Creating regions to group countries together

This step is optional and allows you to group multiple countries into regions.
You can then create zones/views for the entire region instead of for each individual country.
Keep in mind that country specific zones are handled with higher priority and used instead if found,
which means that if for example you have a region "europe", which countains "de" (Germany) and records for 
"*.europe.geosql" and "*.de.geosql" configured, the latter will be used and the former disregarded.


Example on how to creating regions:

```
/* create 'europe' example region */
insert into regions values (null, 'europe','test region for europe');

/* create 'asia' example region */
insert into regions values (null, 'asia','test region for asia');

```

Assigning countries to the region:

```
/* Assigning Germany (de) to the 'europe' example region */
update cc set regionid=(select regionid from regions where regionname='europe') where cc='de';

/* Assigning Asia Pacific countries to the 'asia' example region */
update cc set regionid=(select regionid from regions where regionname='asia') where 
	cc in ('AP','AU','CN','HK','ID','IN','JP','KH','KP','KR','MY','NZ','PH','SG','TH','TW','VN');

```

##PowerDNS Configuration Requirements

Follwoing is an example /etc/pdns.conf configuration


```
# disable caching because responses will be different depending on the source ip
query-cache-ttl=0
cache-ttl=0

# load geosql before gmysql
launch=geosql,gmysql

## Configure gmysql backend ##
gmysql-host=127.0.0.1
gmysql-dbname=powerdns
gmysql-user=powerdns
gmysql-password=password

## configure geosql backend ##

# specify GeoIP database details to retrieve country and region information
geosql-geo-backend=mysql
geosql-geo-host=127.0.0.1
geosql-geo-database=geoip
geosql-geo-username=root
geosql-geo-password=password

# specify powerdns database details for geosql to retrieve geosql suffixed records
geosql-pdns-backend=mysql
geosql-pdns-host=127.0.0.1
geosql-pdns-database=powerdns
geosql-pdns-username=powerdns
geosql-pdns-password=password

```

### License

GeoSQL backend for PowerDNS to support geo-location based DNS responses

Copyright (C) Shin Sterneck 2013-2015 (email: shin at sterneck dot asia)

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.


Other Notes
-----------

Please drop me an email or leave some feedback if this backend is useful to 
you.


Have fun!

Shin Sterneck (shin st sterneck dot asia)

Commit message:

updated feature list to include exclusion of countries

modules/geosqlbackend/README.md, after:

GeoSQL Backend for PowerDNS is copyright Ⓒ 2013-2015 Shin Sterneck

This README is writting in MarkDown format and is currently under 
work-in-progress. Last Update: Mar. 2015


Table of Contents
-----------------

1. [Introduction](#introduction])
    * [How does it work](#how-does-it-work)
    * [Overlay Concept](#overlay-concept)
    * [Special RR Records](#special-rr-records)
2. [Basic Setup](#setup)
    * [Requirements](#requirements)
    * [Preparing the GeoIP Database](#preparing-the-geoip-database)
    * [DNS Database](#dns-database)
4. [Database Schema Requirements](#database-schema-requirements)
5. [Other Notes](#other-notes)


Introduction
============

The GeoSQL backend for PowerDNS enables you to distribute your services
globally and direct your users the nearest server. This is achieved by 
adding location awareness to PowerDNS and maintaining regional DNS 'views'.

One goal for the GeoSQL backend module is to keep the administration and maintenance as 
simple as possible by centralizing the data into an SQL database and thus allowing the domain/zone 
maintainers to use existing powerdns administration tools, such as [PowerAdmin](http://www.poweradmin.org) to 
manage GeoSQL enabled domains without the need to maintain local mapping files on the
powerdns server. The GeoSQL module uses "IP Address to Location" mapping data stored inside an SQL Database.

GeoIP enabled DNS records are stored in the same database table and format as PowerDNS's gmysql backend,
and basically appear exactly like any other domain except that they have a custom TLD identifier. If required, they can
of course be also stored in a different database using the same gmysql schema structure, but this will require further configuration.

Support for "EDNS0 Client-Subnet" extension helps to best identify the client region even when behind a
CDN or other recursive DNS servers (if supported by the provider), such as Google's Public DNS service.

Here a summary of the main features:

1. Create DNS records that differ in reach country/region or create DNS records visible in only selected countries.
2. IP address to country mapping data is completly housed inside an SQL database (allows replication, central administration, and customization of the GeoIP Data)
3. Use existing admin tools to manage geoip enabled domains/zones (allows for admin delegation)
4. Support for edns0-client-subnet extension to best identify client region

###How does it work?

1. **The administrator, has the option of grouping countries together into "regions" or to use the "country ID" directly**

    **a)** For example, if you want to create a zone specific for asian countries you 
    could group all asian countries together and assign them to the region "asia".
    
    **b)** Alternatively the country code itself can be used directly without adding it to groups
    E.g: HK for Hong Kong or US for the United States of America.

2. **All GeoIP enabled zones have a suffix, which is by default "geosql"**

    By default all records/zones/domains that end with the custom TLD ".geosql" are handled by
    the GeoSQL backend module. This effectively creates "views" for each region.

As such, GeoIP enabled domains or views have the following format:


|           Format                  | OR |           Format                    |
|:---------------------------------:|:--:|:-----------------------------------:|
| [domain-name].[REGION].[SUFFIX]   |    | [domain-name].[COUNTRY-ID].[SUFFIX] |


**When PowerDNS receives a query from a client:**

**1.** It forwards the request to the GeoSQL module.

**2.** GeoSQL tries to identify the visitors geographic location and appends 
       the identified REGION and SUFFIX text to the request. This results in a new 
       "temporary" request: [requested-domain-name].[REGION].[SUFFIX]

**3.** When GeoSQL receives a response from the database, it removes the 
       [REGION] and [SUFFIX] from the result.

**4.** Finally it returns the "stripped" (without the [REGION].[SUFFIX] string appended) DNS response back to PowerDNS for further 
       processing.

All you need in the PowerDNS database is a domain entry for each REGION or COUNTRY-ID,
with its own records just like with any other domain.

---

As an example, lets say your domain name is called 'example.com' and you
want to create views for the countries 'us' (U.S.A) and 'it' (Italy). The quickest way would be
to create the zones like this:

| Actual Domain Name | [COUNTRY-ID]    | [SUFFIX] |
|:-------------------|:----------------|:---------|
|example.com         | us              | geosql   |
|example.com         | it              | geosql   |

Your domain within PowerDNS would then look like this:

| Zone Name in PowerDNS's SQL DB   | Description                    |
|:---------------------------------|:-------------------------------|
| example.com                      | main or default domain         |
| example.com.us.geosql            | view for the U.S.A             |
| example.com.it.geosql            | view for Italy                 |


As another example,  you can create so called "regions". Regions group countries together.
Such as 'europe' containing the individual countries in Europe.
**For this to work, you need to associate the countries to a region inside the SQL database first,
see below optional setup step on how to accomplish this**

Following would be a 'regional' example:

| Actual Domain Name | [REGION]        | [SUFFIX] |
|:-------------------|:----------------|:---------|
|example.com         | europe          | geosql   |
|example.com         | asia            | geosql   |
|example.com         | northamerica    | geosql   |

Your domain within PowerDNS would then look like this:

| Zone Name in PowerDNS's SQL DB   | Description                    |
|:---------------------------------|:-------------------------------|
| example.com                      | main or default domain         |
| example.com.europe.geosql        | view for european region       |
| example.com.asia.geosql          | view for asian region          |
| example.com.northamerica.geosql  | view for north american region |

The first 'example.com' domain would act as the default domain and is actually not
part of the GeoSQL backend. The remaining domains, containing the REGION's text, are
geographic specific views, containig DNS records specific to the geographic 
location such as A, CNAME, TXT, MX records or even NS records.

---

Once you have these views, you can simply maintain DNS records within them, just
like with any other domains within PowerDNS. The only important issue to
take care of is that you don't use  a real world TLD (Top Level Domain) as the SUFFIX such as 
'com', 'org' or 'net' to prevent conflicts with real domains. The default SUFFIX is 'geosql';

Some administration tools, such as PowerAdmin, require you to enable non-standard TLDs, otherwise
they won't allow you to create them in the first place. See the individual admin tools' documentation.


###Overlay Concept

GeoSQL is designed to be used as an overlay module, this means that GeoSQL needs to be used 
together with the gmysql backend or another backend that stores its data within an SQL Database.

This also means that you only need to create DNS records, which need to be different in each
geographic location. All other records are handled by other PowerDNS backends, such as the 
gmysql backend.

If you have DNS records that are different in each geographic location and 
other records that are same across all geographic regions, there is no need to
create the common ones again in all GeoSQL views. Simple create them once in 
the main domain (the real domain) and the differing entries in the .geosql suffixed view.
This makes maintenance extremly easy and allows for any DNS resource record to
be used with GeoSQL. It also eliminates the use of CNAME redirects or other
types of tricks.


---

**Example:**

Lets say you have the following A records in the 'example.com' zone/domain:

Domain **"example.com"** for **all** visitors worldwide

| Host Entry       | A record       |
|:-----------------|:-------------- |
| www.example.com  | 203.0.113.100  |
| test.example.com | 203.0.113.200  |

Domain **"example.com.asia.geosql"** specific for **asian** visitors (asian view):

| Host Entry       | A record       |
|:-----------------|:-------------- |
| www.example.com  | 192.0.2.100    |

Domain **"example.com.europe.geosql"** specific for **european** visitors (european view):

| Host Entry       | A record       |
|:-----------------|:-------------- |
| www.example.com  | 198.51.100.100 |

**The final combined result would look as follows:**


**Asian** visitors would see the following records:

| Host Entry       | Response       | Handled by     |
|:-----------------|:---------------|:---------------|
| www.example.com  | 192.0.2.100    | GeoSQL backend |
| test.example.com | 203.0.113.200  | Other backend  |

**European** visitors would see the following records:

| Request          | Response       | Handled by     |
|:-----------------|:---------------|:---------------|
| www.example.com  | 198.51.100.100 | GeoSQL backend |
| test.example.com | 203.0.113.200  | Other backend  |


In the above example you can see that the 'test.example.com' entry is shown even though the asian or
european views do not include this entry. What actually happens is that after
PowerDNS has processed the GeoSQL response, it continues on with the next
backend, until all relevant backends have been queried (this logic
is handled by PowerDNS) and the "test.example.com" comes from one of the other "Other" backends.
Once all data is available, PowerDNS responds to the client with the combined results of all backends.

---

> 1. Note that in the event the visitor can't be mapped to a REGION, such as in the case 
> when no region has been configured, GeoSQL will assign the actual country code and try to retrieve
> any country-code specific DNS records from the database.
> 
> 2. If you have country-code specific records for the domain in the records database, it will always use those
> regardless of whether the country-code is part of a region or if region specific records exist in the
> database. Country-Code is more specific and therefore set as a higher priority than any configured region records.
>
> 3. If GeoSQL can not find a region nor a country code, it will simply report that it could
> not find any records, back to PowerDNS, which in turn may process the request with other backends.

Note that GeoSQL does not directly support slave or zone-transfer operations but you can get the geosql zones
via the gmysql backend by using the the full domain name like in the database "example.com.us.geosql".


Special RR records
------------------

The main DNS domain will be used for SOA record queries! The GeoSQL module will
ignore the SOA record inside a .geosql domain and instead use the 'real' SOA record instead.

###Setup

The following instructions can be used as a basic setup to get GeoSQL running: 

GeoSQL depends on two data sources:

1. The GeoIP Database containing IP Address Ranges and their assigned Location
2. The PowerDNS DNS Records Database, containing your DNS records.


## Requirements

GeoSQL currently requires the following libraries:

+ OpenDBX Library (build with MySQL support)
+ Boost ( including Regex Library)


##Preparing the GeoIP Database


1. To prepare the database, we will first need to download the GeoIP Data.
There are several free and commercial ready to download collections available,
however for this tutorial we will be using the MaxMind GeoLite Legacy Database in CSV
format, which is freely available on their 
[homepage](http://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/legacy/geolite) and is regularly 
updated. 
> It's also possible to use the new GeoLite2 database but for the sake of simplicity
> we will use the legacy database as the import method can also be applied to other database
> sources such as ip2location's lite database.

2. Once you have downloaded the GeoIP data, we'll have to import 
it into our MySQL server. 

The below sql statements will take care of this procedure, it presumes that the MaxMind CSV file
"GeoIPCountryWhois.csv" is located at '/tmp/GeoIPCountryWhois.csv'.
Change it to wherever you have downloaded the file to.


```
/* Create database to store IP to Geo Mapping information */

/*!40000 DROP DATABASE IF EXISTS `geoip`*/;
CREATE DATABASE /*!32312 IF NOT EXISTS*/ `geoip` /*!40100 DEFAULT CHARACTER SET utf8 COLLATE utf8_unicode_ci */;
USE geoip;

DROP TABLE IF EXISTS ip;
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS cc;
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS regions;
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS csv;

/* Table to hold the region details */
CREATE TABLE regions (
    regionid INT UNSIGNED NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY AUTO_INCREMENT,
    regionname VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL UNIQUE,
    comment VARCHAR(50)
);

/* Table to hold the Country Codes and reference to the region */
CREATE TABLE cc (
    ci INT UNSIGNED NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY AUTO_INCREMENT,
    cc CHAR(2) NOT NULL,
    cn VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
    regionid INT UNSIGNED,
    FOREIGN KEY (regionid) REFERENCES regions(regionid)
);

/* Table to hold the IP Address - Geo Mapping Information */
CREATE TABLE ip (
    ip_poly POLYGON NOT NULL,
    ci INT UNSIGNED NOT NULL,
    SPATIAL INDEX (ip_poly)
) engine=myisam;

/* Create a view for easy lookup */
create view lookup as
    select ip_poly,cc,regionname from ip 
    left join cc on ip.ci = cc.ci 
    left join regions on cc.regionid=regions.regionid;

/* Temporary table used for importing the CSV file */
CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE csv (
    id INT UNSIGNED NOT NULL auto_increment,
    ip_poly POLYGON NOT NULL,
    cc CHAR(2) NOT NULL,
    cn VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
    PRIMARY KEY (id)
);

/* Importing of CSV file and converting IP Address into a GeoSpacial format for a more efficient search */
LOAD DATA LOCAL INFILE "/tmp/GeoIPCountryWhois.csv"
    INTO TABLE csv FIELDS TERMINATED BY "," ENCLOSED BY "\"" LINES TERMINATED BY "\n"
     (@ip_start_string, @ip_end_string, @ip_start, @ip_end, @cc, @country_string)
    SET
     id := NULL,
     ip_poly := GEOMFROMWKB(POLYGON(LINESTRING(
      POINT(@ip_start, -1), POINT(@ip_end, -1), POINT(@ip_end, 1), POINT(@ip_start, 1), POINT(@ip_start, -1)))),
     cc := @cc,
     cn := @country_string;

/* Filling tables with imported data, while performing some optimizations */
INSERT INTO cc SELECT DISTINCT NULL,cc,cn,NULL FROM csv ORDER BY cc ASC;
INSERT INTO ip SELECT ip_poly,ci FROM csv NATURAL JOIN cc;

CREATE INDEX records_name ON records (name);

```

## Optional: Creating regions to group countries together

This step is optional and allows you to group multiple countries into regions.
You can then create zones/views for the entire region instead of for each individual country.
Keep in mind that country specific zones are handled with higher priority and used instead if found,
which means that if for example you have a region "europe", which countains "de" (Germany) and records for 
"*.europe.geosql" and "*.de.geosql" configured, the latter will be used and the former disregarded.


Example on how to creating regions:

```
/* create 'europe' example region */
insert into regions values (null, 'europe','test region for europe');

/* create 'asia' example region */
insert into regions values (null, 'asia','test region for asia');

```

Assigning countries to the region:

```
/* Assigning Germany (de) to the 'europe' example region */
update cc set regionid=(select regionid from regions where regionname='europe') where cc='de';

/* Assigning Asia Pacific countries to the 'asia' example region */
update cc set regionid=(select regionid from regions where regionname='asia') where 
	cc in ('AP','AU','CN','HK','ID','IN','JP','KH','KP','KR','MY','NZ','PH','SG','TH','TW','VN');

```

##PowerDNS Configuration Requirements

Follwoing is an example /etc/pdns.conf configuration


```
# disable caching because responses will be different depending on the source ip
query-cache-ttl=0
cache-ttl=0

# load geosql before gmysql
launch=geosql,gmysql

## Configure gmysql backend ##
gmysql-host=127.0.0.1
gmysql-dbname=powerdns
gmysql-user=powerdns
gmysql-password=password

## configure geosql backend ##

# specify GeoIP database details to retrieve country and region information
geosql-geo-backend=mysql
geosql-geo-host=127.0.0.1
geosql-geo-database=geoip
geosql-geo-username=root
geosql-geo-password=password

# specify powerdns database details for geosql to retrieve geosql suffixed records
geosql-pdns-backend=mysql
geosql-pdns-host=127.0.0.1
geosql-pdns-database=powerdns
geosql-pdns-username=powerdns
geosql-pdns-password=password

```

### License

GeoSQL backend for PowerDNS to support geo-location based DNS responses

Copyright (C) Shin Sterneck 2013-2015 (email: shin at sterneck dot asia)

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.


Other Notes
-----------

Please drop me an email or leave some feedback if this backend is useful to 
you.


Have fun!

Shin Sterneck (shin st sterneck dot asia)
